So first thing like uh how to enable or how to utilize github
Copilot
in your developers environment is
we have to use uh
ID E
either we can go with visual code studio
and visual studio or Intel
J or Eclipse. So one of the
development environment you need ID and then you have to enable the extension.
So in here in our training environment, we are utilizing the VS
code as well as we are trying to utilize github
Copilot by installing an extension. So that is github
copilot and for chat functionality, we are also using the github
copilot chat
and
and how does github
Copilot is providing you uh like uh for
code generation or for just suggesting codes.
These are the different ways through which we can ask or like github
can try to help you or try to aid you
in generating the code or auto completion or we can say
uh fixing the code or whatever task which you daily do as
a
developer. So first suggestion behavior is your declaration based.
So if you are right, started writing something like you're typing public main,
something of you have started
defining a function or you started defining a variable,
so it will try to complete it for you.
So that uh that form of suggestion is your declaration based of suggestion.
And next is your comment based.
So you didn't write the program or you didn't start writing the code,
but instead of it, you just started writing a comment
uh which is the
or which is explaining what you intend or what you want to write
or develop in this part of a program. So using or based on those comments, also github
Copilot will try to suggest you that.
OK,
this can be a suitable example of code which you
can use it or which you can utilize and improve it
and
line by line suggestions.
Sometimes it may not provide you the whole code directly instead of it.
It will uh just keep on it. It will be a journey with you along with you.
So you write one line and press enter,
it will try to suggest another line or another line of code for you.
And again you press enter and it can suggest you another line of code. So which can
uh let's see can be useful for the
com achieving your desired output to complete your task
and multiple suggestions. So we have this option also
and using this multiple suggestions
for some functionality. So let's say you want to do some task or
you want to, let's say take a flutter up example,
you want to add some widget or add some
text or add some uh you field or something.
Then for the for doing this task or for adding a widget.
So multiple code
solutions can be available.
So you can choose whichever is the most suitable for you.
And then you can accept that one. Otherwise you can just discard those solutions.
And again, you can refine your prompt.
And again, you can go for or ask for the suggestions from the github
Copilot, github
co
plot. Like it's a very good tool.
It's like it's uh we have discussed, it's a very powerful tool
for generating the code positions or for other task which you do as a developer.
But keep this thing in mind that
it's not a replacement for your own programming.
So already we have seen some things. But
so you should also be like
uh reviewing the code like whatever it is suggesting you OK?
It's good and well,
but you have to review it or you have to see
or check that whether whatever suggest it is providing you,
it is suitable for your task or not, any improvement is needed in that position.
So you can refine your prompting, asks it.
Otherwise you can just say,
oh no uh rewrite this in this way or you can ask for the uh you can define or you,
you can just state your objective in a different perspective
so that Copilot can try to suggest you the same
kind of code or a different kind of code,
which can be much more aligned with your needs.
So
uh it's important to consider this as a tool as a a and
I know like it's just very gentle reminder that do
not rely on it completely because sometimes it may generate some
of old code also because let's say you take Java.
So earlier it was Java eight, then we have Java 11, then we have Java 17,
then we have Java 21.
So sometimes it may generate some old code.
It can also be possible because it is trained
on the uh different different kinds of code base.
So in code basis, we can have legacy code also, right?
So it can be possible that it will be generating some old quote at some point of time.
So what you have to do is you just have to verify it whether OK, this is suitable or not.
Is it perfect or not? And then we have to incorporate the code suggest
as code snippet into our uh
workspace or into our project.
And specifically
github co pilot is used in code generation,
test case generation, code explanation, document generation. And
for improving the code quality like the way we write or the way we define,
we are going to define the programs or
different uh parts of our code so that we are trying to improve it in code generation,
we can like we can start it from scratch or we can just take uh
existing project and then we can add some new components to it or we can
customize the existing code which is like
uh uh more aligned to the current requirement or the current trends or scenarios.
And for test case generation. So we can
uh whatever code we have generated earlier for that, we can
generate some unit test cases.
And we can also debug the code which can help to identify any underlying issues.
And we'll try, you can also try to
fix it, code explanation.
And this is like one of the good feature here because if you're,
let's say you're totally new to one, some of the
uh programming language and you have, you are being assigned a task to
improve something or modify something or add a new feature.
Then first what you have to do like your first plan or
first step would be OK, let's understand first what it is doing this program.
So you try to understand it, you will go line by line or read it and then understand it.
OK?
What it is doing or what functionality it is performing and then
you will try to update it or you'll try to modify it or
you will try to incorporate some new feature into that existing one.
So this understanding your existing code, some,
sometimes it can take a bit longer time or sometimes it can be complex
one and you may not be able to understand it in the easiest manner.
So in that case, or in that scenario, github
copilot can be a very powerful tool which can
easily explain you or like make you understand,
OK, what this piece of
code is doing
and what you want to do.
And then it can also suggest you or can provide recommendations,
good recommendations for you so that
uh you can easily and effectively complete your task and document generation.
As of now, uh it is very useful for making your code more readable,
more understandable.
So, uh and how does it achieving this readability and under
understandable purposes by generating comments?
So at this point of time, it is trying to generate comments for
your selected code and it will try to make sure it is looking good and well.
And by doing this,
we are trying to improve the readability of our function of the feature of our code
and code quality. So
if you are
discovering or let's say uh while you're reviewing your code,
if any errors are formed, you can also fix it or you can also
try to debug those errors using the
github
co pilot.
So it will be much more easier to fix those issues with the help of github
coate
instead of us searching first understanding. OK. Why is this error?
Why, what is this error and why it is coming?
And actually why is this an issue and then trying to resolve it.
So we can easily understand with the help of good
github corporate like what was the issue?
And if we want to resolve this issue, what can be done
and how to how it can be implemented in
a
much easiest way.
So these are the like major applications or let's say areas where github
copilot can enhance or can help the developer to complete their work, you know,
much more effective and efficient way.
So github
Copilot a coding productivity booster because it is able to
do a lot of things and it is able to
help or assist the developer in a lot of different different areas.
And how does this the github
code
is able to do all these things like generating
code or test case generation or explaining code.
So you have to direct it. So the user or the developer has to direct the github
copilot to do a particular task or
you have to reach out to the github copilot saying OK,
I'm not able to understand this code or I I
have to or I want to generate test cases or I want to add this features what can be done
and how it can be implemented.
So you have to define your objective in a clear and concise manner. Then github
Copilot can assist you. OK?
So you want to do this fine,
I have these suggestions or I have these solutions for you.
So and if you are fine or if you are like, OK,
these are very good solutions for me and I can try to implement it.
So then you can accept those suggestions,
uh suggestions into your code and you can try to
use it. But after your
incorporating or after you're using those positions,
uh it
is very much recommended to test the code.
Normally, just like we do if you're writing your own code,
whatever test cases you try to do or whatever check cases you do.
So all those uh has to be implemented. Even if you are using the
github
co
pilot,
then only we'll be able to achieve or we'll be
able to improve the overall quality of our code.
And by using github
copilot, we can actually
focus more or let's say when it comes to like implementing a certain new feature. So
you are tasked with a new feature and you don't
know what has to be done or what programming concept
has to be used or what package has to be used or you don't even know where to start.
Let's say you want to implement a new feature and you don't know where to start
and uh like from which particular uh package or how to start writing the coding.
So you can utilize the get a copilot and
uh use its recommendations to start it. And you can also try
and experiment with the the implementation of the new features staying in the state
of flow So that is uh earlier when you're using the development environment,
if you encounter any error and you're not able to resolve it.
So what you will do either you will reach out to your colleague
or you will reach out to your senior employee or you'll try to
search in the Google or you'll try to make use of any of the
platforms, internal platforms through, you will try to resolve that error.
So what you are doing, you are moving away from your development environment
and you're trying to search solutions uh on
the internet or with your colleagues or internally uh
you are using a different tool or you
or you're navigating away from your development environment.
So sometimes this effect or like this transition
is influencing the development or the developer productivity.
Now with the
usage of github
copilot,
there is no need to navigate away from
your uh development and environment there and there itself
you can make use of the chat functionality or you can make use of the any of the gi
coperate
suggest
behaviors and try to
resolve your solution most of the times.
Uh let's say maximum of the times it will try
to provide a recommendation which can be useful for you
for resolving your issues or for implementing something which you
don't know or which you are not aware of.
And sometimes github
coal it like it brings the creativity out of you.
So when it is trying to provide a suggestion, right?
So you think in a different manner, OK, this can be done. OK. How to I uh improve it more
uh what else can be done along with this?
So you're going to think much more in a different manner
and you get a one more uh like colleague.
Uh of course, it is a robotic colleague and it is a chat board kind of thing.
Still,
it will be very much useful and it it has a great influence on how you work as
well as how you think and how you are
trying to implement the things as part of your work
and reducing, develop a cognitive load.
So you now cognitive load in the sense like how much mental effort you're putting
or how much you're thinking about how to do this or how to accomplish this.
OK? You're writing a function or
you're trying to implement some
uh particular functionality or you're writing a
class or you're writing a test case.
So you'll be thinking right? OK. How this can be done? What has to be written or
what are the variables has to be used?
What values we have to use, what logic we have to use.
So we are thinking in that manner.
So now with the help of this uh github
Copilot, so the stress or the mental effort which the developer has to put in,
so that is being reduced because we can get some
suggestions and we can find or we can try to
reuse the uh we can generate some new code or some new logic with the help of github
Cobalt,
which can
uh reduce that load and we can focus or we can put our or
we can apply this mental efforts on a other useful task which is much more productive
and which can be like increasing the overall quality as well as the experience,
the developer, the developer experience while
performing their task.
And github
copilot is like is majorly
creating influence on the development environment.
So when the developer is writing the code or when the
unit cases are being generated or when the developer is trying to
understand the existing code or when they are trying to generate
some comments or like making the code more readable and understandable.
So that is why it is applying mainly to the
DeVos
inner loop.
So regarding this inner loop, I will try to explain it more in the upcoming slides.
Uh Don't worry about it like how and where this github
cooperators
creating the huge influence or let's say where is the exact impact created
in the development and environment that we are going to see regarding this?
And it can also improve the communication and collaboration
between developers like when you're working with a team,
right?
So uh with the help of get copilot,
so you can also improve the uh team culture and the collaboration within your team,
which can lead to faster development times as well.
You can complete your work
effectively as well as like you can reach your desired output or your goal in a
easier way, as well as effective.
And without impacting the overall quality of your code,
you have used it, right?
Github goot. Now how to decide it, whether it is generating good code or bad code.
The first thing is manual review
and that is why it just gave a general reminder that
github
Copilot is for your
help. OK? So you have to lead it or you have to direct it,
uh what you want to do and what you want the
github
co
pilot to do for yourself or instead of you what the github
cot has to perform and how like how,
what kind of suggestions or what kind of thing you are looking for.
So we are trying to give directions or we are
trying to guide it or we are giving some hints
and then we are trying to uh expect a response from it,
right? So first, even if it is doing the task for you
are in the like you have to take the full control and
you have to ensure or you have to verify and check,
OK?
Whether this code is acceptable or
you know the coding rules and frameworks which are being followed
in your team or in your project or in your organization.
So make sure that
github
corporate is following all of those things and then generating your code.
So you should be
still verifying it. And apart from it,
you, the code should be tested locally to ensure that the code is working fine or
it's working well and good.
And apart from it, basic understanding,
if you have uh let's say you're developing in Java.
So if you have some basic understanding of Java like, OK, how,
how the code is being written or how the programs are being developed,
then it can come handy.
So it will be a like upper hand for you
and it will be like an added advantage. So it is not necessary or it is not compulsory.
But still if you have the basic understanding of programming language,
which you are working in, it can
give you like added advantage or more
upper hand of your and you can easily verify the code generated
by the github populate is good or not or suitable for you,
not in a much more better way and code reviews should never be skipped.
So whatever earlier you were doing,
let's say when you were writing the code by yourself,
then you are performing some uh test, right?
Maybe in terms of security or maybe in terms of
functional testing or nonfunctional testing or different kinds of testing,
whatever you're performing,
nothing should be skipped.
We should,
we should be following all those steps even
though the code is generated by the github
copilot. And uh we know that most of the times it generates good code, but still
for ensuring that it is generating good code
and for ensuring that everything is going smoothly,
we have to do all the
different kinds of check cases like this. And uh in terms of security or other
scenarios, also we have to do it and manual review like you have to be in control,
like what kind of positions you are accepting from github
Copilot.
And after accepting,
you also have to ensure that it's working and it's uh
usable and it can be a part of your project.